Hi Rampal and Francisco,

See below my responses

R: First of all, I think this is all VERY interesting. Great that you already got some results for empirical systems!
C: Yes, I agree it is very interesting and I thank you for making this extra effort and great suggestions.

R: But these results boggle my mind. The large discrepancy between model and data really suggests that very strong selection is actually acting, which reduces the impact of the paper. The only thing you can argue is that the model is an appropriate null model, and that some convergence and complementarity can be expected from the general processes that we consider. I wonder whether that is sufficient for publication in Ecology Letters.
C: You see more than me here. At this stage, I do not see why discrepancies can be explained by selection. This is just a qualitative comparison because we have explored a minimum set of the parameter space. Indeed, I am in the opposite view now. How is it possible predictions are so good with such a narrow explored parameter space? 

R: Yet, I am not sure whether I believe the plots. What causes the nonlinear decay in the model results? That is, what causes the convergence to stop increasing when lowering the threshold. With a threshold of 0, you should have 100% convergence, right?
C: In the previous plot I calculated convergence following three rules.
1. Define sister as the most similar and remove it (this can be 1 or several species).
2. This produces the total pool of nonsister species to be compared with the focal species.
3. A) Phenotypic similarity between focal-nonsister must be higher than between focal-sister and B) phenotypic similarity between focal-nonsister must be higher than the threshold where the threshold can be from 0 to 1.

The proportion of convergence events was calculated as 3/2. This means that from the total pool you discard some species because even if they are nonsister they do not satisfy point 3A. 
I have now calculated the other option. This is to put 3A outside the pool as we did for the sister species. In that case, convergence is 100% for low thresholds. See attached figure.

R: And at the same time, I wonder how you can get such high convergence in the empirical data for lower thresholds, because you require that phenotypic similarity between less related species is higher than between the species and its sister. I think that the levelling off of convergence with lower threshold may be due to this requirement, but was this imposed on the empirical data too? Do you have phylogenetic data for these species? And was this phylogenetic correction applied to the empirical data?
C: Yes, both requirements were impossed to calculate convergence as indicated in points 1-3 above. In the empirical data I just discarded pairs with the same genera (assuming sister species belong to the same genera to make an analogy with point 1 above).

R: I think it would be better for science to include the analysis of many systems in this paper than in a separate one, although I understand that you want to get this paper submitted and also a separate paper would probably be easier; we could get Alex Pigot involved who has LOTS of data on plant-frugivorous birds networks (nice thing about birds is that phylogenetic data is amply available, another good group is butterflies but then we should find systems that exclusively use butterflies for pollination).
I wonder, though, whether Ideas and Perspectives is really the appropriate format. Why not a Letter?

C: I agree more empirical data would be great. Unfortunately, I have to submit this paper (I already put it as submitted in my tenure statement).
The team that evaluates my tenure and me agreed on this. Based on this, I would prefer only theory or theory with a few datasets based on a qualitative comparison. This is unfortunate from my side because I would prefer to join theory and empirical data more quantitatively, but a first qualitative paper submitted as soon as we agree and a second based on ABC or other methods in a near future is my ideal tenure-driven solution. I am sure we agree a whole data-model analysis exploring a broader parameter space can take weeks or even months. This can postpone submission from months to half a year. 

Ideas or letter is ok to me. The model presented contains novelty and synthesis in several fronts but we still have to strengthen this in the CL or proposal.

R: In any case, we first need to understand the comparison between simulated and empirical data.
C: I agree. We can just discuss the figure as we have it now or we can try to get better predictions, but this would require to tune parameters we think can be of interest. 

